- [Narrator] Now that we have a key pair,
it's time to implement our encryption
and decryption routines using RSA.
Let's jump back into our IDE
and open up source main Java.
And now, this time, our asymmetric package
and open up our asymmetric encryption utils.
Now to this class,
let's go ahead and add a method.
Public static byte array
called performRSAEncryption,
and we will pass it a string in a plain text,
and a private key.
And this method will throw an exception.
Now much like we saw for the symmetric routine,
we are gonna create an instance of a cipher,
cipher.getInstance, and we're gonna pass it
our RSA algorithm.
Now this time there's no padding or CBC because
it's not a block cipher, there's no padding,
we don't need to deal with any of that this time.
But we will go ahead and create a cipher.init,
using the encrypt mode,
and our private key.
And now our final step here
is to return the cipher.doFinal,
passing it our plainText.getBytes.
Now in this example, we're gonna focus on
the private key encryption path,
whereby we encrypt with the private key.
Therefore we will decrypt with the public key.
Now once again, I want to reiterate that
asymmetric works both ways.
You can encrypt with either
and you simply decrypt with the other value.
So now let's go ahead and write our decryption routine.
So in this case, we'll do a public static string,
performRSADecryption.
And in this case we'll take a byte array
that is our cipherText,
and a public key
and we will go ahead and throw Exception.
So now, much like you might expect at this point,
we're gonna create an instance of our cipher,
passing it the RSA algorithm.
We will initialize our cipher,
this time using our decrypt mode,
and sending in our public key.
And we will get a byte array, called result,
which equals ciper.doFinal,
passing it our cipher text.
And we will simply return a new string
that is our result.
So let's go ahead and open up our test now,
so we can test the algorithm that we just created.
In this test class,
let's create a new instance of a test.
And we are gonna call this test
testRSACryptoRoutine,
and it will throw an exception.
Now we will create an instance of a key pair.
And we will create an instance of our plain text.
Which, once again, we will use: "This is the text
we are going to hide in plain sight."
And now we will create a byte array
of cipherText that equals
our EncryptionUtils.performRSAEncryption,
passing in the plainText and the keyPair.getPrivate.
We will assertNotNull on our cipherText,
and we will go ahead and do a System.out.printline,
using the DataTypeConverter once again,
.printHexBinary, passing in our cipherText.
And now, finally, we will do a decryptedText equal
to our AsymmetricEncryptionUtils.performRSADecryption,
passing in our cipherText and our public key.
And now we can simply do an assertEquals
on our plainText,
and our decryptedText.
So now if we run our test...
Once again, it's gonna take a little bit of time
to generate our key pair.
But you will see that both tests pass.
And if we take a look at the actual routine,
you will see the actual encrypted payload.
And as you might expect, based on the fact that
we've had a very large private key that we were using,
the cipher text is very large as well.
And that's essentially all there is
to asymmetric encryption in Java.